# MDX parser does not start

<!--html--><h3>Error:</h3><div style="font-size: 14px;"><br>
</div><div style="font-size: 14px;"><span style="font-size: 14px;">The MDX execution terminates with an error message on the SAP BW system and a connection test using transaction SM59 is not possible,</span><br></div><div style="font-size: 14px;"><br>
</div><h3>Reason:</h3><div style="font-size: 14px;"><br>
</div><div style="font-size: 14px;">See&nbsp;<a href="https://cdn-files.theobald-software.com/help/1032461EN.pdf" style="font-size: 14px; background-color: transparent; color: rgb(244, 1, 31);" target="_blank">SAP Note 1032461</a><span style="font-size: 14px;">&nbsp;for more information,</span></div><br><h3>Solution:</h3><h3><br></h3><h3><span style="font-weight: normal;">Follow the steps below:</span></h3><ul style="font-size: 14px;"><li><span style="color: inherit; font-size: inherit;">Read SAP Note 581509. This SAP Note contains general information about the “timeout during allocate” error message.</span></li><li><span style="color: inherit; font-size: inherit;">Download the librfc32 from the Kernel download location (Select Non Unicode Kernel to get librfc32, otherwise you might get librfc32u).</span></li><li><span style="color: inherit; font-size: inherit;">Implement the current version of librfc32.dll (not librfc32u.dll) on ALL application servers.</span></li><li><span style="color: inherit; font-size: inherit;">The file librfc32.dll can be installed several times. Replace all versions. Note 336693 describes how to replace this DLL on the Windows platform.</span></li><li><p style="font-size: 14px; display: inline !important;">If file librfc32.dll is not contained in the same directory as mdxsvr.exe, it must be in one of the search path directories (environment variable PATH). The MDX parser (program mdxsvr) is located in a directory of the application server: <i>/usr/sap/</i>.&nbsp;</p><span style="font-size: 14px;">&nbsp;To check whether the newly installed librfc32.dll is contained in the path, u</span>se the command CMD to open a command line, execute the command SET and check whether the environment variable PATH contains a directory that contains librfc32.dll, e.g., /<i>System32</i>.</li><li><span style="color: inherit; font-size: inherit;">In transaction SM59, check whether the setting “Communication Type with Target System” (“MDMP &amp; Unicode” tab) is set to “Non-Unicode” for the RFC destination MDX PARSER.</span></li><li><span style="color: inherit; font-size: inherit;">Install “Microsoft Visual C++ 2005 Service Pack 1 Redistributable Package ATL Security Update” (KB973544) </span><a href="http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=14431" style="font-size: inherit;" target="_blank">vcredist_x64.exe</a></li></ul><br><p style="font-size: 14px;">If these steps are unsuccessful, try to start the MDX parser as a local RFC server. Carry out the following steps for the Windows platform:</p><ul style="font-size: 14px;"><li>Use the command CMD to open a command line.</li><li>Switch to the directory that contains mdxsvr.exe (/usr/sap/</li><li>Start the MDX parser as a server using the following command: mdxsvr -amdxparser -g</li></ul><font color="#2c2728"><br></font><span style="font-size: 14px;">If the program can be started successfully, the functions should not be impaired.</span><br><p style="font-size: 14px;">If a test of the RFC destination still results in an error, enter the complete path for the file mdxsvr.exe in the “Program” field (for example, <i>j:\usr\sap\BWP\SYS\exe\run\mdxsvr</i>). Then check whether the test still results in an error. If the test is successful this time, it indicates that a PATH variable is incomplete.</p><p style="font-size: 14px;"><b>Important:</b> If there is an error messages with regard to the MDX parser from BW 7.30 on (for example, in the system log), even though the statement can be parsed successfully, refer to the SAP Notes 1572695 and 1666816.</p>