This page shows how to set up and use the Salesforce destination. The Salesforce destination loads data to Salesforce.

## Requirements

#### Salesforce Edition

This destination requires one of the following Salesforce editions:

- *Enterprise*
- *Unlimited*
- *Performance Edition* The Salesforce edition has to include the Integration via web service API feature.

#### Permissions

To run an extraction the API-Enabled permission is needed. If the object has to be created the user also needs following permissions:

- *Modify All Data*
- *Customize Application*
- *Manage Profiles and Permission Sets*

## Create a new Salesforce Destination

Follow the steps below to add a new Salesforce destination to Xtract Universal:

1. In the main window of the Designer, navigate to **Server > Manage Destinations**. The window “Manage Destinations” opens.
1. Click **[Add]** to create a new destination. The window "Destination Details" opens.
1. Enter a **Name** for the destination.
1. Select the destination type *Salesforce* from the drop-down menu. A list of connection details opens.
1. Fill out the [destination details](#destination-details) to connect to the destination.
1. Click **[OK]** to confirm your input.

The destination can now be assigned to extractions.

### Destination Details

The destination details define the connection to the destination.

#### Username

Enter your Salesforce username.

#### Password

Enter the corresponding password.

#### Security Token

Enter the Security Token that was generated by Salesforce and is used to access API functions.

#### Reset Security Token

Opens a link to the website where you can reset your current Security Token. To reset your security token on Salesforce, at the top navigation bar go to **your name > Setup > Personal Setup > My Personal Information > Reset My Security Token**.

#### Environment

Select **Production** to write data directly to your productive environment or select **Test** to write data to a test environment.

#### Test Connection

Check the database connection.

## Assign the Salesforce Destination to an Extraction

Extractions write data to their assigned destination. Follow the steps below to assign a destination to an extraction:

1. In the main window of the Designer, select an extraction.
1. Click **[Destination]**. The window “Destination Settings” opens.
1. In the “Destination Settings” window, select your Salesforce destination from the dropdown list.
1. Optional: edit the [destination settings](#destination-settings).
1. Click **[OK]** to confirm your input.

When running the extraction, the extracted SAP data is now written to the destination.

### Destination Settings

The destination settings only affect the extraction that the destination is assigned to. To open the destination settings, select an extraction in the main window of the Designer and click **[Destination]**. The window "Destination Settings" opens.

### File Name

Determines the name of the target table. The following options are available:

| Option | Description | | --- | --- | | **Same as name of SAP object** | Copy the name of the SAP object. | | **Same as name of extraction** | Adopt the name of the extraction. | | **Fully qualified extraction name** | Adopt the name of the extraction, including the path of the extraction. This option avoids conflicts, when the extraction names are not unique. Use the fully qualified extraction name when the same extraction name is used in multiple [extraction groups](../../organize-extractions/). | | **Custom** | Define a name of your choice. |

#### Append timestamp

Add the timestamp in the UTC format (\_YYYY_MM_DD_hh_mm_ss_fff) to the file name of the extraction

### Column Name Style

Defines the style of the column name. Following options are available:

| Option | Description | | --- | --- | | *Code* | The SAP technical column name is used as column name in the destination e.g., MAKTX. | | *PrefixedCode* | The SAP technical column name is prefixed by SAP object name and the tilde character e.g., MAKT~MAKTX | | *CodeAndText* | The SAP technical column name and the SAP description separated by an underscore are used as column name in the destination e.g., MAKTX_Material Description (Short Text). | | *TextAndCode* | The SAP description and the SAP technical column name description separated by an underscore are used as column name in the destination e.g., Material Description (Short Text)\_MAKTX. | | *Text* | The SAP description is used as column name in the destination e.g., Material Description (Short Text). |

### Convert dates

Converts the character-type SAP date (YYYYMMDD, e.g., 19900101) to a special date format (YYYY-MM-DD, e.g., 1990-01-01). Target data uses a real date data-type and not the string data-type to store dates.

#### Year 0

Converts the SAP date 00000000 to the entered value.

#### Year 9999

Converts the SAP date 9999XXXX to the entered value.

#### Invalid values

If an SAP date cannot be converted to a valid date format, the invalid date is converted to the entered value. NULL is supported as a value. When converting the SAP date the two special cases 00000000 and 9999XXXX are checked first.

### Preparation

| Option | Description | | --- | --- | | *None* | No action. | | *Delete & Create* | Deletes the object with the specified name and creates a new one. | | *Create If Not Exists* | Creates a new object if no object with the specified name could be found. |

### Row Processing

| Option | Description | | --- | --- | | *None* | No action. | | *Insert* | Inserts all records into the specified object. | | *Merge* | Inserts all records into the specified object and updates already existing entries. |

### Concurrency Mode

#### Parallel

Process batches in parallel mode. This is the default value.

#### Serial

Process batches in serial mode. Processing in parallel can cause database contention. When this is severe, the job may fail. If you experience this issue, submit the job with serial concurrency mode. This guarantees that batches are processed one at a time. Note that using this option may significantly increase the processing time for a job.
